###PART I THE UNION AND ITS TERRITORY

1. (1) India, that is Bharat, shall be a Union of States.

 [(2) The States and the territories thereof shall be the States and their territories specified in Parts A, B and C of the First Schedule.]

 (3) The territory of India shall comprise

 (a) the territories of the States;

 (b) the territories specified in Part D of the First Schedule; and

 (c) such other territories as may be acquired. 

2. Parliament may by law admit into the Union, or establish, new States on such terms and conditions as it thinks fit.

3. Parliament may by law

 (a) form a new State by separation of territory from any State or by uniting two or more States or parts of States or by uniting any territory to a part of any State;

 (b) increase the area of any State;

 (c) diminish the area of any State;

 (d) alter the boundaries of any States;

 (e) alter the name of any State: Provided that no Bill for the purpose shall be introduced in either House of the parliament, except on the recommendation of the President and unless, where the proposal contained in the Bill affects the boundaries of any State or States specified in Part A or Part B of the First Schedule or the name or names of any such State or States, the views of the Legislature of the State or, as the case may be, of each of the States both with respect to the proposal to introduce the Bill and with respect to the provisions thereof have been ascertained by the President. 

4. (1) Any law referred to in article 2 or article 3 shall contain such provisions for the amendment of the First Schedule and the Fourth Schedule as may be necessary to give effect to the provisions of the law and may also contain such supplemental, incidental and consequential provisions (including provisions as to representation in Parliament and in the Legislatures or Legislatures of the State or States affected by such law) as Parliament may deem necessary. 

 (2) No such law as aforesaid shall be deemed to be an amendment of this Constitution for the purposes of article 368. (2)