##FIRST SCHEDULE
*(Articles 1, 4 and 391)*

**The States and the territories of India** 

####PART A 

Names of states         Names of corresponding Provinces 

1. Assam                Assam 

2. Bihar                Bihar 

3. Bombay               Bombay 

4. Madhya Pradesh       The Central Provinces and Berar 

5. Madras               Madras 

6. Orissa               Orissa 

7. Punjab               East Punjab 

8. The United Provinces The United Provinces 

9. West Bengal          West Bengal

###TERRITORIES OF STATES

The territory of the State of Assam shall comprise the territories which immediately before the commencement of this Constitution were comprised in the Province of Assam, the Khasi States and the Assam Tribal Areas. The territory of the State of West Bengal shall comprise the territory which immediately before the commencement of this Constitution was comprised in the Province of West Bengal. The territory of each of the other States in this Part shall comprise the territories which immediately before the commencement of this Constitution were comprised in the corresponding Province and the territories which, by virtue of an order made under section 290A of the Government of India Act, 1935, were immediately before such commencement being administered as if they formed part of that Province. 

####PART B

NAMES OF STATES 

1. Hyderabad. 

2. Jammu and Kashmir.

3. Madhya Bharat. 

4. Mysore. 

5. Patiala and East Punjab States Union. 

6. Rajasthan. 

7. Saurashtra. 

8. Travancore-Cochin. 

9. Vindhya Pradesh. 

TERRITORIES OF STATES 

The territory of each of the States in this Part shall comprise the territory which immediately before the commencement of this Constitution was comprised in the corresponding Indian State, and

(a) in the case of each of the States of Rajasthan and Saurashtra, shall also comprise the territories which immediately before such commencement were being administered by the Government of the corresponding Indian State, whether under the provisions of the Extra-Provincial Jurisdiction Act, 1947, or otherwise; and 

(b) in the case of the State of Madhya Bharat; shall also comprise the territory which immediately before such commencement was comprised in the Chief Commissioner's Province of Panth Piploda. 

####PART C 

NAMES OF STATES 

1. Ajmer. 

2. Bhopal. 

3. Bilaspur. 

4. Cooch-Behar. 

5. Coorg. 

6. Delhi. 

7. Himachal Pradesh. 

8. Kutch. 

9. Manipur. 

10. Tripura. 

TERRITORIES OF STATES The territory of each of the States of Ajmer, Coorg and Delhi shall comprise the territory which immediately before the commencement of this Constitution was comprised in the Chief Commissioner's Provinces of AjmerMerwara, Coorg and Delhi, respectively. The territory of each of the other States in this Part shall comprise the territories which, by virtue of an order made under section 290A of the Government of India Act, 1935, were immediately before the commencement of this Constitution being administered as if they were a Chief Commissioner's Province of the same name PART D The Andaman and Nicobar Islands.