###PART IV DIRECTIVE PRINCIPLES OF STATE POLICY

36. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires, "the State" has the same meaning as in Part III. 

37. The provisions contained in this Part shall not be enforceable by any court, but the principles therein laid
down are nevertheless fundamental in the governance of the country and it shall be the duty of the State to apply these principles in making laws. 

38. The State shall strive to promote the welfare of the people by securing and protecting as effectively as it may a social order in which justice, social, economic and political, shall inform all the institutions of the national life. 

39. The State shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing- 

 (a) that the citizens, men and women equally, have the right to an adequate means of livelihood; 

 (b) that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good; 

 (c) that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment; 

 (d) that there is equal pay for equal work for both men and women; 

 (e) that the health and strength of workers, men and women, and the tender age of children are not abused and that citizens are not forced by economic necessity to enter avocations unsuited to their age or strength; 

 (f) that childhood and youth are protected against exploitation and against moral and material abandonment. 

40. The State shall take steps to organise village panchayats and endow them with such powers and authority as may be necessary to enable them to function as units of self-government. 

41. The State shall, within the limits of its economic capacity and development, make effective provision for securing the right to work, to education and to public assistance in cases of unemployment, old age, sickness and disablement, and in other cases of undeserved want. 

42. The State shall make provision for securing just and humane conditions of work and for maternity relief. 

43. The State shall endeavour to secure, by suitable legislation or economic organisation or in any other way, to all workers, agricultural, industrial or otherwise, work, a living wage, conditions of work ensuring a decent standard of life and full enjoyment of leisure and social and cultural opportunities and, in particular, the State shall endeavour to promote cottage industries on an individual or co-operative basis in rural areas. 

44. The State shall endeavour to secure for the citizens a uniform civil code throughout the territory of India. 

45. The State shall endeavour to provide, within a period of ten years from the commencement of this Constitution, for free and compulsory education for all children until they complete the age of fourteen years. 

46. The State shall promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the people, and, in particular, of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect them from social injustice and all forms of exploitation. 

47. The State shall regard the raising of the level of nutrition and the standard of living of its people and the improvement of public health as among its primary duties and, in particular, the State shall endeavour to bring about prohibition of the consumption except for medicinal purposes of intoxicating drinks and of drugs which are injurious to health. 

48. The State shall endeavour to organise agriculture and animal husbandry on modern and scientific lines and shall, in particular, take steps for preserving and improving the breeds, and prohibiting the slaughter, of cows and calves and other milch and draught cattle. 

49. It shall be the obligation of the State to protect every monument or place or object of artistic or historic interest, declared by Parliament by law to be of national importance, from spoliation, disfigurement, destruction, removal, disposal or export, as the case may be. 

50. The State shall take steps to separate the judiciary from the executive in the public services of the State. 51. The State shall endeavour to

 (a) promote international peace and security; 

 (b) maintain just and honourable relations between nations; 

 (c) foster respect for international law and treaty obligations in the dealings of organised peoples with one another; and 

 (d) encourage settlement of international disputes by arbitration.